{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Considerations for neuromorphic supercomputing in semiconducting and superconducting optoelectronic hardware \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Alex review\
\
This paper is a valuable comparison of two very large categories of technology for implementing large-scale neural networks. I think that multiple aspects being taken into consideration at the same time \'96 particularly memory, connectivity, fabrication \'96 is important. The references to past work could be useful to someone looking for an overview.\
\
It is very difficult to write about future technology and information processing in this way because it involves a lot of assumptions about which R&D is going to be hard and/or fundamentally impossible, as well as assumptions about which information processing models will be fruitful. Generally, there is an effort to provide justification for many these assumptions, but some could use a bit more. In particular, these conjectures at the beginning have to be justified as strongly as possible because they are doing a lot of work in terms of reducing scope to the authors\'92 research.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Conjecture 2 \'96 spiking signals \'96 rules out most artificial neural networks used today (except neuromorphic CMOS), which use continuous valued signals. I think it is justified by
\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333  
\f0\fs24 \'93Further, performing synaptic weighting in the electronic domain allows for binary optical communication, which minimizes the amount of optical energy per spike and reduces noise incurred by communication.\'94 Isn\'92t this circular logic, if the second part of the sentence is assuming spikes?\
Conjecture 1 \'96 dedicated axons \'96 eliminates all neuromorphic electronics and photonics in use today. It could use a sentence about advantages of \'93fully dedicated axon approach\'94 after citing Ref. [4]. Reviewers and readers might argue that multiplexing makes sense for the brain-scale goal because it trades of bandwidth (abundant) for interconnection density. Would it be possible to rebut that argument ahead of time?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Low capacitance PIN PDs seems pretty hard to get around, but it doesn\'92t seem like there\'92s anything fundamentally holding back cryogenic infrastructure or III-V integration: they are just hard. It would help to distinguish these between hard to develop and fundamentally impossible, if you can, possibly in the table in Fig 7.\
\
What is your opinion of the fruitfulness of this approach? I walk away with an impression that the prospect of brain-scale neuromorphic hardware is pretty bleak, especially if it is guided by conjectures 1-3. It is a lot of very difficult todos. Do you think it is actually possible? If so, then that should be prominently featured in the abstract and conclusion. I think it is ok to write author opinion on this because the choice of technological assumptions already represents opinion, and readers are going to walk away with their own opinions.\
\
\
\'97\'97\'97\
\
\
Several places: When referring  semiconductor memory technology, I think it would help to clarify that 
\f2\i analog
\f0\i0  memory is being stipulated. They can always be co-integrated with digital semiconductor memory, which has unlimited timeconstant.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Intro: \'93Despite limiting our discussion only to architectures meeting our three conjectures, there re- mains a vast space of design choices, making it difficult to draw hard-and-fast conclusions. Nevertheless, interesting guidelines can be obtained by analyzing limits of technologies most likely to be used in each platform.\'94 \'96 I think this is very well stated. Admitting that a lot of this study is conjectural at this point, these guidelines for assessment are important and lacking, and they need to be developed in spite of future uncertainty.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Fig. 6 might be better as an equation:\
Nf = \\eta P_sys/E_spike\
- The equation gives insight into how the variables relate to one another\
- The plot doesn\'92t contain much graphical information beyond showing an inverse relationship\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 - Example of graphical information would be data points on this, such as modern CMOS neuromorphic (1M, 1kHz), modern RT neuromorphic photonic architectures (10, 1GHz), memristors (?, ?), plus future CMOS (?M, 1kHz), future RT photonic (10k, 40GHz), plus some of the typical operating points you expect from the systems analyzed in this paper.\
\
Sec 5.5.2. Why choose 10MW? If you can assume that superconductor-semiconductor interface is possible (big \'93if\'94), can\'92t you assume that GW computers can be made?\
\
Sec A. This is an interesting result that timeconstants scale differently vs. area. \
\
Multiple places, there is reference to \'93Table 4.1.4\'94 Do you mean table 1?\
\
Sec6, sentence 2: and circuitry *make* optoelectronic systems\
\
Circuit diagrams: put dots on top of wire crossings to indicate where there is a junction between wires}